README.md, before:

# Jekyll Blog Comments

Jekyll is a great tool for creating a statically generated blog but out of the box it doesn't have any support for comments.

This repo provides some tools to address that.  Specifically;

## Includes/templates

The [jekyll/_includes](/jekyll/_includes) folder contains three files that you can include from your Jekyll site to render comments, they are;

- [comment.html](/jekyll/_includes/comment.html) - Renders a single comment
- [comment-new.html](/jekyll/_includes/comment-new.html) - Show a 'leave a comment' form 
- [comments.html](/jekyll/_includes/comments.html) - Loops through comment.html for a post and follows it up with comment-new.html

Copy these to your `_includes` folder then include them from your blog post page, e.g. my `_layouts/post.html` file looks like this;

```yml
---
layout: default
---
<div class="post {{ page.class }}">
  {% include item.html %}
  {{ page.content }}
  {% include comments.html %}
</div>
```

### Configuring Jekyll for the templates

Finally you will need to add this end of your `_config.yml` so sorting and posting work:

```yml
emptyArray: []

comments:
  receiver: https://{{your-site.com/api/PostComment}}

```

You should also make sure you have an author block for each post author so it can match when an author responds to his own post with additional styling;

```yml
authors:
  damieng:
    name: Damien Guard
    email: damieng@gmail.com
    url: https://damieng.com
```

If you do not have an author set on each post/page you can define default ones like this;

```yml
defaults:
  -
    scope:
      path: ''
      type: pages
    values:
      layout: page
      author: damieng
  -
    scope:
      path: '_posts'
      type: posts
    values:
      layout: post
      author: damieng
```

## Exporters

### WordPress

- Upload [this file](/exporters/wordpress/export-blog-comments.php) to your site
- Access export-blog-comments.php call from your browser and wait for it to complete
- Download the `/comments/` folder over SSH and then *remove it* and the export-blog-comments.php from your server
- Copy the `/commments/` folder into your Jekyll `_data/` folder

## Receivers

Receivers are serverless components that receive the 'new comment' form post and perform the necessary action to get that comment into Jekyll.

### Azure + GitHub

An Azure function that receives the form post, performs some validation and then creates a pull request against your GitHub repository with the new comment ready for you to merge or close.

## Implementation notes

### Data format

The comments are stored in your Jekyll site in individual yml files with the format `_data/comments/{blog-post-slug}/{comment-id}.yml`

The `blog-post-slug` must match the Jekyll slug for the post it relates to while the `comment-id` can be anything unique.

Each file should look something like this file, `_data/comments/wordpress-exporting/12345.yml`

```yml
id: 12345
name: Damien Guard
email: damieng@gmail.com
gravatar: dc72963e7279d34c85ed4c0b731ce5a9
url: https://damieng.com
date: 2007-12-18 18:51:55
message: "This is a great solution for 'dynamic' comments on a static blog!"
```

Commit message:

Link to jekyll-blog-comments-azure

README.md, after:

# Jekyll Blog Comments

Jekyll is a great tool for creating a statically generated blog but out of the box it doesn't have any support for comments.

This repo provides some tools to address that.  Specifically;

## Includes/templates

The [jekyll/_includes](/jekyll/_includes) folder contains three files that you can include from your Jekyll site to render comments, they are;

- [comment.html](/jekyll/_includes/comment.html) - Renders a single comment
- [comment-new.html](/jekyll/_includes/comment-new.html) - Show a 'leave a comment' form 
- [comments.html](/jekyll/_includes/comments.html) - Loops through comment.html for a post and follows it up with comment-new.html

Copy these to your `_includes` folder then include them from your blog post page, e.g. my `_layouts/post.html` file looks like this;

```yml
---
layout: default
---
<div class="post {{ page.class }}">
  {% include item.html %}
  {{ page.content }}
  {% include comments.html %}
</div>
```

### Configuring Jekyll for the templates

Finally you will need to add this end of your `_config.yml` so sorting and posting work:

```yml
emptyArray: []

comments:
  receiver: https://{{your-site.com/api/PostComment}}

```

You should also make sure you have an author block for each post author so it can match when an author responds to his own post with additional styling;

```yml
authors:
  damieng:
    name: Damien Guard
    email: damieng@gmail.com
    url: https://damieng.com
```

If you do not have an author set on each post/page you can define default ones like this;

```yml
defaults:
  -
    scope:
      path: ''
      type: pages
    values:
      layout: page
      author: damieng
  -
    scope:
      path: '_posts'
      type: posts
    values:
      layout: post
      author: damieng
```

## Exporters

### WordPress

- Upload [this file](/exporters/wordpress/export-blog-comments.php) to your site
- Access export-blog-comments.php call from your browser and wait for it to complete
- Download the `/comments/` folder over SSH and then *remove it* and the export-blog-comments.php from your server
- Copy the `/commments/` folder into your Jekyll `_data/` folder

## Receivers

In order to process a new comment do you need a little bit of code running somewhere in the cloud to capture the form post, validate the parameters and write it to your repository.  Here's what we have so far:

### Azure + GitHub

[jekyll-blog-comments-azure](https://github.com/damieng/jekyll-blog-comments-azure) creates new comments as pull requests against your blog's GitHub repository.

## Implementation notes

### Data format

The comments are stored in your Jekyll site in individual yml files with the format `_data/comments/{blog-post-slug}/{comment-id}.yml`

The `blog-post-slug` must match the Jekyll slug for the post it relates to while the `comment-id` can be anything unique.

Each file should look something like this file, `_data/comments/wordpress-exporting/12345.yml`

```yml
id: 12345
name: Damien Guard
email: damieng@gmail.com
gravatar: dc72963e7279d34c85ed4c0b731ce5a9
url: https://damieng.com
date: 2007-12-18 18:51:55
message: "This is a great solution for 'dynamic' comments on a static blog!"
```
